README.md, before:

# Assignment-46750
All data and scripts for the final assignment in course 46750

The following dataset are used.

Historical wind production: [Renewables Ninja](https://www.renewables.ninja). We use data for the location of Kriegers Flak, though we assume a wind farm capacity of simply 1 MW to allow for price-taker assumption.

Historical spot prices ("Spot price (DKK)"): [Energi Data Service](https://www.energidataservice.dk/tso-electricity/Elspotprices)

Historical reserve capacity and prices ("aFRR Downward regulation purchased (MW)", "aFRR Downward regulation capacity price (DKK)"): [Energi Data Service](https://www.energidataservice.dk/tso-electricity/AfrrReservesNordic)

Historical balancing market prices ("Imbalance Price (DKK)"): [Energi Data Service](https://www.energidataservice.dk/tso-electricity/RegulatingBalancePowerdata)

Data is used for the period 03/10--2024 to 06/11--2024 and for grid zone DK2 (five weeks of data where aFRR down is actually being purchased regularly).

The code is split into various stages, expressed by the filenames. 'load_data' is pretty self explanatory, as it simply loads the data into python, such that it can easily referenced in other files.

Then comes the actual implementation files for the models V1, V2, V3, V4, and V5. The file names include a small description of what is included in each version e.g. that the aFRR power market is included in V2. Each model increases in complexity from V1 to V4/V5. The file 'V4_OOS.py' is used to test the optimal solution from 'V4_aFRR_stratbal_risk.py' out-of-sample.

The two files 'Decomp-baseline.py' and 'Decomp-benders.py' are used to decompose a simpler version of V4 without strategic price offering.

Commit message:

cleaned code/print/plots and elaborated the README
We still need to update the code for decomposition and V5 to replicate the plots in the report. Also the readme should be update accordingly wrt. the decomposition files

README.md, after:

# Assignment-46750
All data and scripts for the final assignment in course 46750. It should be run properly without issuing due to loading of files if opened as its own folder in e.g. VSCode.

The following dataset are used.

Historical wind production: [Renewables Ninja](https://www.renewables.ninja). We use data for the location of Kriegers Flak, though we assume a wind farm capacity of simply 1 MW to allow for price-taker assumption.

Historical spot prices ("Spot price (DKK)"): [Energi Data Service](https://www.energidataservice.dk/tso-electricity/Elspotprices)

Historical reserve capacity and prices ("aFRR Downward regulation purchased (MW)", "aFRR Downward regulation capacity price (DKK)"): [Energi Data Service](https://www.energidataservice.dk/tso-electricity/AfrrReservesNordic)

Historical balancing market prices ("Imbalance Price (DKK)"): [Energi Data Service](https://www.energidataservice.dk/tso-electricity/RegulatingBalancePowerdata)

Data is used for the period 03/10--2024 to 06/11--2024 and for grid zone DK2 (five weeks of data where aFRR down is actually being purchased regularly).

The code is split into various stages, expressed by the filenames. 'load_data' is pretty self explanatory, as it simply loads the data into python, such that it can easily referenced in other files.

Then comes the actual implementation files for the models V1, V2, V3, V4, and V5. The file names include a small description of what is included in each version e.g. that the aFRR power market is included in V2. Each model increases in complexity from V1 to V4/V5. The file 'V4_OOS.py' is used to test the optimal solution from 'V4_aFRR_stratbal_risk.py' out-of-sample.

In order to replicate the OOS results first run the files as is, and observe the results for the OOS scenarios. Then, run 'V4_aFRR_strabal_risk.py' while setting 'testing=True' and uncomment the last line to recreate the file 'V4_trained_model.csv'. Now rerun 'V4_OOS.py' to observe the optimal-in-hindsight solution (i.e. training on the test set and observing the performance).

The three files 'Decomp-V2.py', 'Decomp-V2CVaR_allinsub.py', and 'V20_CVaR_for_decomp.py' are used for decomposition. The first is use to demonstrate the decomposition on the simple V2 formulation. The second is used to decompose and retrieve the decomposition results for the more complex V2+CVaR formulation. Finally, the last file simply provides the solution without using decomposition. It is named "V_2" because it is closely related to model version V2 and then "0" is simply added onto it ("V20") in order for it to be ordered after V5.
